# Lab 1: Grade Evaluator & Archiver

## Student Information

Name:** Refilwe Sodlulashe
Course:** Introduction to Python Programming and Databases
Lab:** Lab 1 – Grade Evaluator & Archiver

# Project Overview

This project consists of two parts:

1. **grade-evaluator.py**

   * Reads student grades from a CSV file.
   * Validates the scores and assignment weights.
   * Calculates the final grade and GPA.
   * Determines whether the student has PASSED or FAILED.
   * Identifies formative assignments eligible for resubmission.

2. **organizer.sh**

   * Archives the current grades.csv file.
   * Creates an archive directory if it does not exist.
   * Renames the archived file using a timestamp.
   * Creates a new empty grades.csv file.
   * Logs every archive operation in organizer.log.

# Repository Structure
```
lab1_rsodlulash-png/
│
├── grade-evaluator.py
├── organizer.sh
├── README.md

```

# Requirements

* Python 3
* Bash Shell (Ubuntu/Linux)

# How to Run the Python Application

1. Open a terminal.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
   cd lab1_rsodlulash-png
3. Run the program.
   python3 grade-evaluator.py
4. When prompted, enter the CSV filename.
   grades.csv

# Expected Output

The program displays:

* Total Grade
* Final Grade
* GPA
* Formative Percentage
* Summative Percentage
* Final Status (PASSED or FAILED)
* Eligible assignment(s) for resubmission


# How to Run the Shell Script

First, make the script executable.

chmod +x organizer.sh

Run the script.

./organizer.sh

The script will:

* Create an archive folder if it does not exist.
* Generate a timestamp.
* Rename and move grades.csv into the archive folder.
* Create a new empty grades.csv.
* Record the operation in organizer.log.


# Files Included

* grade-evaluator.py – Python grade evaluation program.
* organizer.sh – Bash archiving script.
* grades.csv – Student grade data.
* README.md – Project documentation.
* organizer.log – Archive history generated by the shell script.
* archive/ – Stores archived grade files.


# Author

Refilwe Junior Sodlulashe
